A straight line track fitter for test beam analysis of pixel partickle detectors.

The implementation contains a Combinatorial Kalman Filter for track finding, as well as implementation of the standard formulation of the Kalman Filter, an information matrix implementation of the Kalman Filter, and the Deterministic annealing filter. 

The implementations are template classes, taking the fitter type (double or float), and the dimention of the fitter. The implementation currently only works for 4 parameters(straight line tracks). Due to optimizations using the code for 5 parameters would require many functions to be overloaded, not only in the propagation. 

Also contains an implementation of the methods for estimating material and resolutions of several detector planes simultaneously, as described in the paper http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-0221/8/01/P01009 in the class EstMat. An application of the method on toy simulated data is also available.

Code for using the fitter and material estimator from the EUTELESCOPE software framework is also included.

The track fitter(EUTelTrackerSystem, EUTelDafEigenFitter) depends on the linear algebra package eigen2. The material and resolution estimator relies on the GNU scientific library for minimization.

The simulation experiments use root for plotting.

Building and running the material estimator:

make estmat
./estmat <option>
where option is one of fwbw sdr1 sdr2 sdr3 hybr

This will simulate then estimate the resolution and material distribution of 500 track samples. Takes a long time.

Note that the material estimator does not work well for electrones. Electrones lose a substantial amount energy through Bremsstrahlung, a highly non Gaussian process. This means the beam energy after material has been traversed in non uniform, and not Gaussianly distributed. Since there is no way of estimating the particle energy from a straight line track, all beam particles must be assumed to have the same amount of scattering, and this is simply not a good approximation. A method that works somewhat, is to use the FWBW estimator on a track sample after a very tight cut on the chi2.